Components
==========

.. _modules:

Modules
-------

Modules are the primary data-type in Runcible. They are used to represent both the user's desired state for a given
device as well as tracking the current state of a device. They can be generated from JSON, YAML, or a Python Dict (if
you are using the :ref:`api`.)

In general, Modules have a very simple structure, they have a name and attributes:

.. code-block:: yaml

    module_name:
        attribute1: value1
        attribute2: value2

An example of the ``ntp_client`` module as implemented by the :ref:`cumulus_driver` driver:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ntp_client:
        interface: eth0
        servers:
        - 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
        - 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
        - 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
        - 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org

There are also some special modules that behave differently.

Special Modules
***************

Module Array
""""""""""""

Module Arrays are a wrapper that allows a number of modules to exist under a parent module. For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    parent_module:
        - key: sub_module_1
          attribute: value
        - key: sub_module_2
          attribute: value

The most common use case for Module Arrays are interfaces, bonds, and vlans, for example here is an example of the
``bonds`` module array as implemented by the :ref:`cumulus_driver` driver:

.. code-block:: yaml

    bonds:
    - name: po1
      pvid: 1
      slaves:
      - swp1
      - swp2
    - name: po2
      pvid: 1
      slaves:
      - swp3
      - swp4

.. _schedulers:

Meta Modules
""""""""""""

TBD

Schedulers
----------

Schedulers determine the run-order of Runcible's execution stage (when changes are actually made). They govern many
aspects of the "bigger picture" when configuring multiple devices, such as:

- The order in which the devices are configured
- Ensuring that certian groups of devices aren't configured at the same time
- Controlling failure behavior (I.E. failure of a core device results in a stop/rollback of the execution process)

.. _need:

Needs
-----

What is a need?
***************

A need is a datatype that abstracts state changes. Needs can be simplified into a formatted string:

``<parent_module>.<module>.<attribute>.<command> <value>`` Where both the parent module and value are optional. For
example:

``vlans.12.ipv4_address.SET: 10.1.2.3/24`` Is a need that represents setting the ipv4_address attribute of the vlan
sub_module for vlan 12 to 10.1.2.3.

``ntp_client.servers.DEL: 0.pool.ntp.org`` Is a need that represents removing the value ``0.pool.ntp.org`` from the list
of ntp servers.

Needs are tightly couple to module attribute pathing, so the attribute:

.. code-block:: yaml

    system:
      hostname: test

Would be modified by a need of ``system.hostname.SET: newhostname``.

How do they get generated?
**************************

Needs are generated by Runcible automatically when you provide a desired state and call the command ``apply``. For
instance:

.. code-block:: shell

    [mergedb_getting_started]$ runcible ".*" apply -m .
    The following changes will be applied:
    Device core:
    ==========================================
    vlans needs:
        vlans.10.CREATE
        vlans.20.CREATE
        vlans.30.CREATE
    interfaces needs:
        interfaces.swp1.vlans.ADD: 10
        interfaces.swp1.vlans.ADD: 20
        interfaces.swp1.vlans.ADD: 30
        interfaces.swp2.vlans.ADD: 10
        interfaces.swp2.vlans.ADD: 20
        interfaces.swp2.vlans.ADD: 30
        interfaces.swp3.vlans.ADD: 10
        interfaces.swp3.vlans.ADD: 20
        interfaces.swp3.vlans.ADD: 30

What occured is that Runcible examined the current state and desired state, and generated a list of needs that are
required to bring the two into alignment. Needs provide idempotency in a way that doesn't require Plugin developers to
worry about state, as Runcible abstracts the state into Needs.


Needs and ad-hoc commands
*************************

You can also apply needs from the command line. By specifying a need string in lieu of :ref:`special_functions`, you can
easily make changes without having to create a desired state data source.

For instance:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ runcible -m /home/grayson/PycharmProjects/runcible/examples/cumulus_mclag 'spine1a' ntp_client.interface.GET
    Device spine1a:
    ==========================================
    eth0

Need Operations
***************

Need objects support the following operations:

SET
"""

Boolean: set sets the boolean to either True or False
List: set replaces the entire list with a new list
String: replaces the string with the new string
Integer: replaces the integer with the new integer


DELETE
""""""

List: must be specified with a value, and only deletes the value specified
String: removes the string
Integer: removes the integer


CLEAR
"""""

List: deletes the whole list


GET
"""

Only used by ad-hoc commands, returns the value of the attribute


ADD
"""

List: adds a new value (or values) to the list


CREATE
""""""

Module: Creates a sub-module within a module array

REMOVE
""""""

Module: Deletes a sub-module within a module array
