docs/introduction.rst, before:

Introduction
============

What is Runcible?
-----------------

Runcible is a framework and CLI application to allow for declarative switch management. It intakes a declared state for
a device in YAML or JSON and turns it into a list of idempotent commands to configure that device, it then runs them
over SSH, Telnet, or RS-232 (plugins can be written for any text based terminal, or REST API however.)

Runcible provides a high-level API for Python developers to leverage to manage devices programmatically, and also
provides a YAML interface with configuration layering and inheritance for network engineers with any amount of
programming experience.


What is a Runcible?
-------------------

Depending on who you ask, its either a nonsensical word, a word for spork, or a faster than light transportation network.

How is This Different from Ansible and Others?
----------------------------------------------

Runcible focuses on network devices (Switches, Routers, Firewalls, Wireless Gear), and also has some strong opinions in
regards to YAML structure. This gives it many advantages for network appliances, chiefly different devices or devices
from different vendors being able to share a similar interface. Since network devices must comply with networking
standards, they generally all operate in a similar fashion, and as a result can be abstracted in a similar fashion. This
makes it rather unsuited to managing operating systems.

While Ansible is the current de-facto option for managing network device configurations, it doesn't support the concept
of layering configurations, which is extremely important if you are trying to define a network using DRY (Don't Repeat
Yourself) principles.

I Want to Get Involved
----------------------

Great! Head over to the :ref:`contribution-guide` or give it a spin: :ref:`getting-started`.

Commit message:

Re-adding RST Pages that Didn't Make the Merge for Some Reason

docs/introduction.rst, after:

Introduction
============

What is Runcible?
-----------------

Runcible is a framework and CLI application to allow for declarative switch management. It intakes a declared state for
a device in YAML or JSON and turns it into a list of idempotent commands to configure that device, it then runs them
over SSH, Telnet, or RS-232 (plugins can be written for any text based terminal, or REST API however.)

Runcible provides a high-level API for Python developers to leverage to manage devices programmatically, and also
provides a YAML interface with configuration layering and inheritance for network engineers with any amount of
programming experience.


What is a Runcible?
-------------------

Depending on who you ask, its either a nonsensical word, a word for spork, or a faster than light transportation network.

How is This Different from Ansible and Others?
----------------------------------------------

Runcible was created to solve three major problems in regards to Network Automation:

Interface Commonality
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One of the core components of Runcible is a datatype known as :ref:`modules`. Modules are plugin-independent interfaces
that allow data with a common schema to be passed into multiple types of plugins. This allows for a large amount of
configuration re-use between similar devices produced by different vendors. I.E. the vlans module should be implemented
by any switch plugin that supports vlans, and the configuration should be identical (assuming the device supports
the entire featureset of the vlans module.)

Topology Awareness
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One important aspect of any kind of network automation is ensuring that bad automation runs are dealt with, and that
you stage your changes in a topology-aware manner. You wouldn't want a bad change to propagate to your entire core
switch fabric and take your network down. Runcible provides :ref:`schedulers` that allow for intelligent automation runs
allow you to ensure that your automated changes are made intelligently, and also control rollback and failure behavior.

Protocol Agnosticism
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Runcible doesn't operate on a defined set of protocols. While most providers will go with a text based protocol (SSH,
telnet, RS232), any protocol is supported. Runcible provides some sane default protocol modules based on paramiko for
SSH, and pyserial for RS232 terminals, but has loose shim classes that allow plugin writers to implement any protocol
they deem necessary without inhibiting any of Runcible's features. This allows users to use their same automation
repository for both bootstrapping devices via a serial connection, as well as making changes via SSH, Telnet, REST, or
even protocols that haven't been invented yet.

I Want to Get Involved
----------------------

Great! Head over to the :ref:`contribution-guide` or give it a spin: :ref:`getting-started`.
